Let's take three with the injection.
Oh, I know one small bit of a brain thread that I somehow got distracted from.
The one other great advantage of living in California is you don't have to pay for your heat.
And if you look at what's tax-deductible and what isn't, you're going to have a hard time taking off the heating of your entire house.
I mean, not that I take my heat off the taxes, but I don't pay anything to keep it warm, really.
So the idea, it seems to me, is to have as many pleasures in life as are tax deductible and as few non-tax deductible.
And I actually, while I don't object to telling you I make $20,000, I don't like, it's not, I think I'd rather you didn't print it.
You can say I make a very small amount of money.
The reason I don't, I dislike the sort of journal, you know, everything with Rosenbach is all, you know, he sold it for $300,000, therefore it's an important book.
I dislike the, you know, I recognize there is money involved in these things.
I dislike the equation, particularly very much, especially in America, of...
money, intellect, occupation.
I know it appeals to, from a journalistic point of view, it's a useful thing.
I'm not presumpting to be coy.
You can just indicate a certain modest expectations.
And what I've described, of course, to you... Well, it's basically subsistence expectations.
Yeah, but as I say, I don't feel, you know, this great deal of difference between me and someone who...
This isn't for everybody, is what I think it's important.
It's an important point to face it.
I think you're living a wonderful, exciting, exhilarating life, precisely the life that you want to live and you're enjoying it.
But I don't think that you would want to recommend this.
Yeah, absolutely not.
And that's the point.
I do feel there are other people who are making small amounts of money
you know, washing dishes or something.
Those people have no greater hope.
I always have the sense of, you know, powers in reserve.
I have willfully sold in a particular way.
I mean, there are loads of things I could do.
I could buy a computer.
I could publicize myself.
I could reduce long, unprofitable blurbs.
I could do research on more expensive books in order to make more money.
There are loads of ways I could make lots more money.
All I've tried to do is, as painlessly as possible, make enough money to live on.
And in California, you can, you know, it has intellectual disadvantages to my mind, but on the other hand, you can live a fairly retired and inexpensive life.
The one problem is housing, which is fairly expensive.
So I basically try to make enough money to pay the insurance and the property tax and that sort of thing.
And then you're fortunate that your wife also has an income.
Right.
You mentioned that you're teaching your son over there.
If you don't want to bring him into the discourse at all, but it is interesting how you talked about education and reading and your first library card when you were one boy, really, in Illinois.
Are you encouraging your son to kind of move in the same direction in his reading?
We've not.
How are you?
No, I've done nothing.
You have a child here.
We've done absolutely nothing.
He simply follows his own best.
And the people act, of course, because I like books as though we must have forced him to read from the very day of birth when, from a very young age.
He wanted to be read through constantly.
Our voices got very tired and we would have to read to him 10 hours a day.
It was just insatiable.
So you keep getting more books.
The library here allows you to borrow 100 books as a child
And my wife has a card and he has a card.
So between the two of them, they can keep 200 books out at any one time.
And there are no fines for children.
So no overdue fines or anything.
Wonderful system.
And they have very good books.
The library here is supported by a separate tax assessment.
It used to be part of the general city budget.
You now pay something on your property tax.
We pay maybe $250 a year.
in relation to our house value to support the library.
And as a result, they really have a good... That's a lot of money.
Each individual pays that much money.
Well, every owner of a house worth roughly this, which is probably an average Berkeley house.
Well, this is probably actually a slightly cheaper Berkeley house.
About $250 of that money goes to the library.
That's an enormous amount.
Yeah, it's a lot more than most people do.
We have their place over in Marin County.
They've got nothing but a county library system, and they spend, I don't know.
$5 per person here, something that's pathetic.
Now, Berkeley is a very literate community.
Books, it's a great place to sell books.
I mean, that's another way I'm cutting my own throat.
I'm sitting in a spot where I could live in western Massachusetts, so I could sell this house and buy five houses like this in western Massachusetts.
And if I'm just living in a closet existence, Berkeley is a magnificent place to sell books.
The, you know, Black Oak, I mean, this place is just...
There are loads of people with a fair amount of money who actually do, they may not be buying the book-size scheme all the time, but nonetheless, it's a very, and the same with the library.
A lot of people have spent fair amounts of money on the... What, you got a coffee?
Well, it's just down the street.
It's better, it's just coffee in Berkeley.
It's just halfway down the street.
We make tea ourselves, but the coffee we usually go down and go.
So anyway, he's always been interested in... He's always wanted to be read to.
He learned with reading that really sort of unconsciously.
Eventually, a friend of mine said, just put your finger under the words as you read them, when he was about three or so.
And he pretty soon, you know, he didn't sound things out.
He just seized the whole word.
And he now reads extremely... I mean, he could read books which...
He's been reading for maybe a year and a half.
He reads books which are sort of junior high, there's sort of level of page density of junior high to high school textbooks.
And, you know, like Lee's Time Life Middle Eastern cookery book, which is presumably meant sort of for adults, is, you know, in large words, he will sound out.
First thing he read was Times Literary Supplements.
So big, long words that often are stumbling blocks for children don't seem to...
So, and, you know, we've always bought books from them.
There's a wonderful shop where you can buy quite cheap children's books.
So he has lots of books of his own, and he borrows lots of books from the library, and it's his chief interest in life.
But I don't think we've, I mean, obviously, Steve and I have books around, but we've never said, we're going to sit down and read to you.
He's always the one who's bullying us to read, or he wants such and such a book.
So he's extremely bookish.
I think it's a, you know, Charles and Eric's idea is they want to believe from democratic, egalitarian things that everything is environmental, environmental.
And I think heredity creates environment.
Nothing you can print.
But, I mean, without having a profound eugenic view of life, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Oh, I love that game.
But I'm going to talk to your daddy.
Oh, you like this game?
A place, bourgeois.
It's all in French.
That's great.
So I do think there is a liberty, you know, if I were promoting my manner of existence, I do think Americans are greedy people.
They want to have vastly too many possessions.
I certainly have an aesthetic strain, an aesthetic aestheticism.
And, you know, I think you can get along with not a great deal, but I don't have the hopelessness that a person making...
you know, washing dishes at $20,000 a year might well have, because I do feel I could do something else.
And, you know, to some degree, you know, I still pack my own books.
I have no employee.
There's a lot of dog's body work that many a person who has a theorem, or in French, I should say, possibly knows as much about books as I do, does not have to do.
But I do think even without an intellect, if you have some degree of memory and you're crazy to sell books if you don't, and you actually enjoy reading and you keep reading books, you can acquire a vast amount of knowledge that other people won't have.
Now, I realize my extreme example.
I realize that most people, when they were young, didn't read 12 hours.
Even today, although I've cut down my reading enormously, I probably read two hours during the day.
and then I read from about 11 at night until 4 in the morning.
So I still get in about six hours.
And when do you commune with the books that you've acquired from your sale?
When do you start doing that?
Well, I often read the books before I sell the books.
That's why it's so hopelessly uneconomical.
Many of my books I've read before selling.
I have a big table in there, I show you afterwards, of books that are sort of in process.
I either have to read them and then decide whether I'm keeping them or not, or read them and write the blurb.
And, you know, it's ridiculously uneconomical, but if you actually want to read the book anyway, then it's fine.
I don't know whether to put you in a reader's chapter or a bookseller's chapter.
I'm an extreme example of whatever.
Are you a reader or a bookseller, in your view, if you were to pick one or the other?
I would say I'm a reader because, obviously, I would quit bookselling tomorrow.
I mean, Peter Howard, you could give him a million dollars.
He'll be opening the shop tomorrow morning.
He's never going to retire it.
I was cheerfully tired.
I asked him the fate of the business, and I guess it sounds like he's going to die with his boots on.
And then whatever happens, happens.
See, also another aspect that isn't present, I think booksellers stultify themselves, you know, with the one, the printing in the mind of man, all these things.
It's not as though these people don't actually occasionally... You've mentioned that reference now at least six times.
Yeah, well, it's a talismanic book.
I mean, it's... I've got a copy of it, but it's...
curious to me.
You keep coming back to it.
Well, I'm just taking a symbolic... No, but you keep coming back to it.
You could have mentioned any number of other books.
No, no, I couldn't.
You look at the sort of bookselling that I'm stigmatizing.
Well, I don't stigmatize printing in the mind of man.
In fact, with Stephen Lowenthal, I say it may be said of this, you know, corruptio optimi pessima, the corruption of the best things is the worst thing.
Gregory the Great.
You have something that really is a superb book, and you have it as used by somebody like Stephen Lowenfeil, barbarized, prostituted.
The reduction of learning to these books and those that are outside of the pale are somehow insignificant.
And somebody like Lowenfeil, and there are others, attribute financial value to things that are supposedly intellectual.
That's why I call him intellectual kitsch.
He's debased.
The appraised intellectual pitch is in where Peter gave you a copy of the Jackals.
You bought a copy of the Jackals.
He paid for them.
He did buy them.
And he paid $8 a copy.
So why shouldn't he sell them?
I believe in buying books.
I'm happy to buy them.
But that book codifies in a way that, say, Garrison Morton is just medical books.
I mean, there are a lot of books for different subjects.
But printing in the mind of man has had an enormous influence in making, I should remember, I'm supposed to get back to Lasky and one other thing, but I'm going to, this is something, oh, and Lasky and Calder in Illinois.
Lasky, Calder, and Illinois.
I usually, believe it or not, have a lot more input into these things that would.
It does seem to me, I lose-shaped interviews sometimes, but this one, I'm just letting this one fly.
I also think Americans speak much too slowly.
I think you'll have a devil of a time getting down the rapid fire here.
Also, Americans also very pedantically always complete their sentences.
You'll notice I've probably started and failed to finish an enormous number of them.
But when I was talking about Huntington and Shakespeare, even if Huntington didn't read Shakespeare, he could possibly quote a tag or so, or he wouldn't be reviled as someone who couldn't read Shakespeare.
That whole notion of literary value, you will notice Shakespeare first folios are worth a lot.
Tennyson first editions are not worth a lot at all.
You can look, in fact, at the...
price of English literature in relation to literary value.
Now, I think that, you know, we may be told nowadays you cannot assign absolute literary values, but nonetheless, we can say that Tennyson is a greater poet than Ebenezer Jones.
And we didn't make two fine distinctions, but it is perfectly true that price of a book bears no, of an English book of English literature, bears no relation to literary value.
If you were a poet scorned in your lifetime and valued later
your books may be very expensive.
If you're a poet loved in your lifetime, like Shakespeare, not Shakespeare, but especially Tennyson, Tennyson is almost worthless.
In those first editions we went through, even the first printings were enormous.
He was the poet warrior, too.
He was a very popular poet.
So there were many, many copies of the books.
Exactly.
So people don't collect Tennyson very much.
Bond at Harvard, the retired librarian, has been working on his bibliography for years and years,
And it's just nothing that's ever going to set the world of collecting afire.
Scott's Waverly novels, I mean, a lot of things where the supply and the rarity bears no relation to literary merit.
So a person collecting English literature never makes the confusion that literary merit is somehow a lie to price.
And the more literary quality, the more expensive it is.
And that was a standard thing.
In the old days, when the second and improved edition with scholarly books
the second improved edition is still worth more than the first crappy edition.
Well, would you rather have a fourth folio or a first folio?
Oh, well, if you're a collector, of course you want the first folio.
It's worth more money.
And as a bookseller, of course, I'd rather have that so I could sell it, but I wouldn't dream of keeping it.
But when talking, I think there's a distinction between scholarly books and the appreciation of English literature between what I'm about to mention, which is a factor which enters into printing in the mind of man, the connoisseurship of scientific books, a completely different thing.
The consciousness of that is promoted by, you may even have it in your Gentle Madness, by Herman McLean Evans, right here at Berkeley, where the idea was that the famous author, this is post-Darwin, and Darwin spent years and years, instead of writing this, he would never have written up his Origin of Species in this little communication from Linnaean society if Wallace hadn't forestalled him, and he had to do this little thing.
He was just wavering away on his big book.
And the idea is you produce a big book.
Copernicus has a book.
He doesn't produce lots of little papers.
Galilean published books.
He died.
Copernicus didn't see his book through the press, did he?
But the idea is you produce your learning in the form of a big book, usually not a duodecima, by the way.
You remember there's that whole codification of learning.
Massive learning, folio learning they even called it, is in big books.
Are you familiar with a book called Paratexts, by the way, by Jeanette G?
It's just published by Cambridge University Press.
Ken Carpenter at Harvard suggested I read it.
He...
It's by Bronson, E.H.
Bronson.
Peter had his library.
He was a professor of English here.
It's published by New York Public Library.
It's called Printing as an Index of Taste in the 18th Century.
It's the best single, it's only maybe, it's an off-print from the New York Public Library bulletin issued as a separate, went through several printings.
And it even reprinted in one of his collections, but you should be able to find it around.
It addresses exactly that.
This is a French book, by the way.
But it is a classic formulation.
BP focuses primarily on French literature.
Thinking is an index of taste.
Taste in the 18th century.
And the idea was, the sort of little book of poetry that you took over to the fireside, or a little book of prayers,
The book's praise that's read up at the altar is big in folio so the priest can read it.
The book that you take around into the fields and read in front of a chapel shrine, shrine out in the woods, is a little thing.
And that, of course, has been, well, Harvard Library Bulletin, I've been kind of covering an excellent example of something gone down the drain, something that was sort of holdable, was now this big floppy, and it goes to the mail.
This is typical Harvard arrogance.
They don't realize by the time it crossed the entire country, it's a Harvard Library Bulletin.
There's, yeah, shrapnel.
So, at any rate, that's a
The Book Collector, an admirable example, is a nice, small, readable thing.
Nichols Park, of course, has superb scholarly and typographical taste, which is why it looks so good.
But at any rate, the big book, The Massive Folio Learning, what you find is post-Darwin, when periodicals really take over and every subject starts having a journal of environmental studies, a journal of evolutionary biology, all this type of stuff,
you tend to, and the pace increases, and there are more workers and priority and money and all this, you get these little, you know, it's like the DNA announcement.
You just got this two-page article.
And as Evans rightly pointed out, once you accept the paradigm of firsts, the first form in which it was in there, the way the author first saw his brainchild, all that sort of baloney, you're logically obliged to say that isn't
Einstein's paper where he simply announces relativity in five pages more significant than some bigger volume he might have done.
Of course, the scientist gets into the habit of, since his whole manner of thinking is not in big books, many people like Ross Harrison in Embryology never published a book.
The one book is posthumous, very famous, but they're all just somewhat largest, you know, 100-page, 50-page papers, but it's all just papers, and that's the way they think.
So Evans rightly pointed out that Mendel's announcement and all these things, little papers, are the things that a person should be collecting.
How about AIDS?
That is the first use of that word.
I wonder what that is.
It's probably collectible, but it hasn't been put into some book by some bookseller.
We're saying this is the 12th.
Yes, if there were an AIDS checklist, the AIDS 50 or something.
I'm sure somebody's got to be working on that.
Well, but you notice a lot of things that Jeremy has in his, you know, when he updated Garrison Morton, he had to put in things from mostly recent Nobel Prize things.
He had to look around and find what was going to be considered the official collectible form of this.
A lot of this sort of, you know, it's always takes, there's a little, collectors don't like something hot off the press.
They want, they need a little time, but of course AIDS, I mean, you know, another five years AIDS will be adequate.
Well, I'll bet when somebody, if somebody can figure out who coined that word, and who first identified it as what it is.
Yeah, that's what, I'm sure already it's what, something like Wayne Duck.
Whoever did that, that's,
Well, this is even bigger than Lame Duck.
I mean, this is a scourge on, you know, the world.
Oh, no, I was meaning Lame Duck Book.
Oh, no, Lame Duck Book sells that sort of stuff.
They do, yeah.
Sort of cutting-edge intellectual.
I'm not as much a chronicleer of the antiquarian trade as you might say.
No, I have a little clarity on Lame Duck, which I don't think I'll ever print.
It begins at Lame Duck, grad students run amok.
There's very much a...
I mean, I may seem didactic, although he seems, he's a, it's just, it reeks of grad students, late night coffee, too many chess games, too much quotation of Nietzsche, and this sort of grad student speak, which I think is not a well-rounded, humane, not the sort of conversation you would get from Nicholas Barker and Arthur Freeman, rather brittle and staccato and slightly show-offy.
Sort of the worst side of George Steiner
At any rate, these things have been codified by Evans, and then there are later books, and then Ian Fleming, as no doubt you know, under Percy Moore's Tutelich-Quetti.
And so Printing of the Mind of Man, which, of course, is really involved, is you really should compare the thing that Stanley Morrison and others did for the Cambridge exhibition in 1940, which was closed because of the war.
I can show you the catalog upstairs.
What was it called?
It's called...
something just like an exhibition of printing or something.
It was one of the first attempts to relate printing to intellectual products in an exhibition.
You see, one often forgets that Printing in the Mind of Man was actually two exhibitions.
It was the things in the British Museum, the books, but it was also an exhibition at Earl's Court of all the printing equipment, which in the little paper-bound book, there's half of it as printing equipment.
So there's very much the printing trades aspect of this sort of thing.
It's something that certainly began nowadays with computerization and that influence on desktop publishing and all that.
My friend Calder, as I said, is able to produce uncensored copy because it's desktop production.
It's rather like the sort of printing that French typographers in Holland did in the 18th century.
You had people who knew French who could print it, but you were away from French censorship.
Or the Belgian contrefaçon...
in the 19th century, and you have that nowadays.
At any rate, those things can be interlocked.
But you look at the Cambridge exhibition in 1940, you find a much more eclectic, possibly less pondered, a little more English literature, a little more Pollard and Viral
The humane science hasn't totally taken over.
And I don't say that putting in mind away as a complete sellout to science.
It's sort of like the 11th of Danica, the last monument before scientific barbarism took over.
But nonetheless, it codifies, and the further Garrison-Worton thinks, codifies the equation of scientific value with financial value, which is a given with these people like Jeremy Norman.
And I'm not, it's Jonathan Hill, a whole group of them.
Or Rick Watson's last catalogue, he's been trying to sell it for a while, his off-print, the DNA off-print.
Do you know how much that sells for?
£22,000, I think it is.
It's three pages, printed in 1960.
No, it's not that.
You know, there were 25, 50 copies.
There are slight Bob Dewey graphical complications.
But nonetheless, it's not a beautiful piece of printing.
It's only, it happens to be rare, and it's highly significant, and everybody that's heard of DNA in the way in which everyone Huntington knew had heard of Shakespeare.
So you can, it may look like pretty pibbling stuff when you take it out of its cloth case to say to some friend, but no one can, you can say, the most important scientific development.
Same with Darwin's Origin of Species in Low and File Cells, you know, most important biological book ever written.
You get this
Therefore, it's expensive.
That doesn't exist in old book collecting.
And I think that's a fallacy.
It obviously is a fallacy.
These people fall for a hook, line, and sinker.
The result is they've corrupted their minds.
The bookseller who follows printing the mind of man, Garrison Morton and all these things, has, I should say, there are some exceptions.
There are people like Malcolm Kotler, who has a PhD in history of science, who has some degree of independent judgment.
But many of these people are just following the book that they're selling.
the bibliography that they're consulting, those people have convinced themselves that the really important things in life are the things in these books, not just printing in the mind of man, but a select group of a hundred things.
They have no independent judgment, and they've eliminated all sorts of other quite important things that just didn't happen to fit in the collecting paradigm.
The notion that collecting and book selling somehow relate in a direct manner to intellectual pursuits
is a total fiction that is assiduously promoted by booksellers.
And I feel if I got more involved, I always hope to retire.
If I decide to totally sell out to bookselling, I'd be willing to, of course I hope to retire, totally corrupt my mind and yes, decide, well, it's worth $2,000.
It must be more important than a book that's worth $10,000.
which these people, you know, you put it baldy like this, they'll try to deny it, but the evidence of their catalogs, auction prices, everything is completely... Haven No More is the same.
Haven No More is a total charlatan in this, you know, pseudo-spiritual gobbledygook of these great things.
Well, they're piles of famous spiritual things that aren't worth a lot of money and they don't have this... Haven No More didn't read any of these things.
I mean, it's just complete... Yeah, but we're encouraging people like that.
I mean, Haven No More is a typical American charlatan.
And a typical result of bad educational systems, in many other countries, a person like Haveno Moore would be washing dishes somewhere, wouldn't become an intellectual... S.O.
in health and supplements.
Yeah, which is where there's rough information.
Yeah, exactly.
But I feel if you... Peter Howard has... I don't object in the least to Peter Howard.
He's a very successful bookseller.
He's indeed a great bookseller in a sense which I never could possibly be, even if I wanted to.
But to a degree, he is sold out to his customers.
You may say this is devotion.
I'm putting it unkindly saying, sold out.
He's looking after their interests.
If they say this is important, it is important.
I can give you an excellent example of this.
Well, I mean, that is a very didactic position to take, though, don't you think?
My position?
Yes.
Yes, of course.
But you're telling me what's important.
Not allowing the customer to tell you what the customer thinks is important.
Do I know more than if, yeah, right, but you're cringing to the customer.
You're claiming the customer knows more than you do.
I try not to deal with customers who know less than I do.
Peter is selling to idiots, basically.
Really, he is.
I'm trying to sell to people who are at least my peers, possibly even my superior.
Not all of them, but some of them.
And I feel there's certainly a world, you know, somebody like Calder, he knows what he's talking about.
And I supply him, yes, I try to supply him with the sort of books he wants.
But I don't, you know, I would never have wanted to sell a book to Haver no more.
What's the great, what to you is a really exciting find in a book?
I mean, you've read God knows how many books, the books that you come across.
Do you know most of the books that you come across?
No, you keep finding more things.
You can go through your entire life.
You can never find everything.
But do you have these experiences?
exciting, epiphanous moments when you say, wow, I didn't know about them.
Yeah, they're for maybe about five times in my life.
I've rediscovered a few, but you know, they're two things of no commercial value.
Books like R.H.
Quip's Life and Memoir, a completely uncelebrated book.
Quip wrote Educational Reformers, he's well known for that.
A remarkable volume of observations of school children.
Henri Rourda, R-O-R-D-A.
Dutch-verse, but actually Swiss.
Again, a rather cynical schoolmaster who killed himself about 1925.
I'd never heard of him until I found the book on a second-hand bookshelf.
One does find those things, but I find just as many obscure and unusual things in libraries, possibly even more, because they're all on the shelves if you've got an open stack.
That's what it is by this place.
It's now the shelves, they've got compact shelving, and they've got shelves, say, this wide, this many books.
The rest is all in storage because they never want to have to reshelve anything.
So they'll buy it.
It's ready for the next 50 years of expansion.
You can see nothing but new books that you can see basically on a bookshop.
And to me, I mean, the University of Illinois was all out on the shelf.
The Boston Athenaeum is still on the shelf.
And you really have a sense of what's out there.
These people, again, you look at the Internet.
They claim all the information is out there.
You just have a sort of vague sense that it's there.
You don't know...
how much total information there is, you have no idea what single fact that you have bears to the totality of human knowledge.
When I get back to Patterson and his 20,000 volumes, what relation does that bear to the totality of human knowledge?
You can never know that with the Internet.
With a book and with some thoughts, you can think.
And again, when I say know thyself, you always want to know what relation your knowledge bears to the totality of knowledge, something to make you perhaps more humble than many a bookseller is.
Those people have the theory, I know all of printing in mind.
Many of those people have memorized what's in it.
I'm sure Stephen Lowenfeld does.
They know all the names of Nobel Prize winners.
If the person won a Nobel Prize, you can sell it.
They've got that kind of knowledge, and they think that it's very useful commercial knowledge.
It's not terribly useful intellectual knowledge.
And since I've always spent most of my time reading books and trying to sell them in not too compromising a way, I feel if I try to swallow the...
It's not so much the annotations in Printing the Mind of Man are wrong.
They're perfectly good.
And if you had read every book in there, you would have an excellent range of knowledge.
It's the idea that what they say about it is what's to be said about that book in all contexts.
Now, they don't even, of course, they don't even claim that.
But the idea a person absorbs this and sees Copernicus such and such, this is what there is to Copernicus.
There's an enormous amount more to Copernicus, which if you knew a lot more, you could then relate it to, you know, your wife has, you know, think of, I don't know, Innocent of the Tenth and the fact that he couldn't get rid of mirrors in Spanish convents.
You can think of the relation of mirror technology in 1500, how good were mirrors.
Remember, they couldn't make mirrors beyond about this size, the silvering.
of looking glasses is a very primitive thing.
Early, you see some of those Chippendale mirror frames, unless they've been reglazed, they've got two mirrors in them, because they couldn't make the glass any bigger.
If you've got something, how does the vanity of nuns, what do they see there?
Do they see a fuzzy view of themselves?
Do they, if they happen to see, if they've never seen a mirror for 30 years, and then they look in it, and they
They don't recognize their own face anymore.
Or how is female vanity fed by glass technology?
There are loads of those things that you'd never see.
If you knew all of astronomy, you would be able to understand that.
That's another aspect.
These people think, once we've said what's important about Copernicus for world civilization,
Well, you know, we've said most of it, and I think these people, they have no curiosity.
Their end of their curiosity is to basically have read the blurbs depending on the mind of that.
And I think you convert, you know you're lying.
See, that's why in many of my blurbs, I'm playing with the idea that all booksellers know they're slanting, as I say, the art of making it seem more desirable than it is without actually lying.
You even sort of tell the person you're almost about to...
position it in a false way so it'll seem more desirable.
Horch had one catalog where they were trying to sell something.
Horch had in the catalog, they said if something they were trying to sell for 5,000 pounds that was unique, they said if this were a stamp, it would be worth 10 times the amount, which is perfectly true.
These whole phony...
I think you just have to ignore money, and I basically have ignored money.
I pay a certain amount for a book, and I sell it for more than I've paid for it.
But there are many of Argon in my catalog.
I've never tried to get the last dollar.
Indeed, customers will call the last dollar out of it.
There's always room for another bookseller.
Booksellers will even call me up and say, you know, I've never heard of that, but your prices are always quite reasonable, so I think I'd like to get it.
Do you think there's room for me in it?
And I said, oh, yes, Henry.
You know, I'm asking 150.
They're buying your judgment, too, I think.
They're not necessarily buying your book.
They're buying your... Of course, there is a downside of that, which is there are some books people have never succeeded in selling because they don't have my blurb to go with it.
Why don't they use your blurb?
Well, maybe they... I should probably announce at the beginning that in my... A lot of books... I said you could just copy my blurb.
Well, the trouble is, as you'll see, they're fairly distinctive.
And if you ever have... Will you have some for me that I can... I'll give you some.
If you ask a question of...
Yes, if the bookseller Xeroxes it, sticks it in there and pretends it's his own, he may be asked an awkward question.
People will notice that his conversation is not... My analogs are just like my conversation.
Most booksellers have... No, they are.
You'll see, you'll see.
They're exactly like my conversation.
I mean, we'll possibly remove some... How would you characterize your conversation?
Rapid fire.
Highly discursive.
Unremunerishably, uncommercially discursive.
You notice I still haven't finished Calder, which I was going to finish.
Calder claimed he used to be at Boulder, and he left Boulder.
He's very nearsighted.
All you can do is Boulder.
I mean, Boulder, complete intellectual isolation there.
All you can do is ski.
If you love skiing, you may be willing to accept a smaller salary, a slightly productive university for the sake of that.
Calder, of course, is hardly nearsighted.
He stays inside all winter long.
He's an immensely productive scholar.
And so when he moved to the University of Illinois, they offered him this wonderful chair where he's actually a professor of, instead of being a professor of classics, he's a professor of history of classical scholarship.
And he has this huge slush fund to run these conferences.
He can hire people to come and transcribe documents, and he's incredibly productive.
And he says, well, you know, he felt the University of Illinois had just the advantage that Boulder had for him.
There was nothing else to do there, so he could get an immense number of work done.
This is like old-style Benedictine monks.
You free yourself of the flash.
I mean, Colby's still a gastronome, but you free yourself of lots of other impediments in life, and you can really produce a huge amount of work.
And he's got his own library at home, and I felt University of Illinois was the same for me.
I mean, it was not as though I was there a huge amount of time, but I went to high school there, and it had this library, which is the only redeeming thing.
And once one gets started, I mean, this was a disappointment.
I couldn't get a library card.
I graduated from high school when I was...
16, and you cannot get a library card here until you're, I think you have to be 18 or something to get one at UC, even if you're an ordinary person.
You have to have a driver's license, basically, or be of an age, I think the driver's is 18 here, maybe?
Whatever it was.
I went to a provide, of course, I never got a driver's license.
You never got a driver's license?
No, I don't know how to drive.
I don't like cars.
You also spend a lot of time sitting around in cars.
I walk quite well.
Notice I'm one of the very few booksellers who doesn't have a ponch at the age of 45.
I was thinking of many of them.
Peter Howard is in, although he's a bit of a punch, he's in very good shape for a bookseller, because he still schlaps boxes of books.
Most of these people sit at a desk and they have somebody else to do all the dog's body work for them.
And, you know, I can get a fair amount of exercise.
You avoid an immense amount of frustration.
You avoid getting tied, I mean, quite apart from environmental concerns, you get tied up into an AOI one.
There's an interesting book actually written by Monty Holcroft, a non-driver,
called Car Pace.
It's the history of the car in New Zealand from a non-driver's point of view.
And actually, not driving is quite common among book collectors and much more than you would think, probably far higher than the general population.
Roger Ricker at Turtle Island doesn't drive.
Neither does one of their employees.
Now, it's rare in this country, but John Collins at Mags doesn't drive.
And he told me that when he worked in the Sotheby Book Department in the mid-70s, no member of the Sotheby Book Department drove.
Richard Landon at the University of Toronto doesn't drive.
Neither does his wife.
Yeah, and I've known him.
They don't have a car.
Well, of course, he's in Toronto.
He doesn't really need to.
And I'm here in Berkeley.
I can walk to anything.
Oh, there are good stores right by.
One doesn't need to do it.
And my wife does drive and have a car.
But I've just avoided...
Anyway, you just avoid a whole dimension of existence which you don't want to get involved with.
Calder is a non-driver also.
And there's a library of 2,000 books 5,000 miles away, and it sounds not too promising.
Well, I just shrug my shoulders and forget it.
I've got enough for a one-man thing.
I also like things that I can deal with.
Cars I don't have no interest in getting greasy and fixing.
Whereas bookcases, I've built all my own bookcases.
I build bookcases for other booksellers.
In fact, you could spend a fortune...
The bookcases to shell 30,000 books will cost you a very substantial amount of money, possibly more than $30,000.
And if you don't have arbitrary skills... So I don't have... I'm not locked... You certainly...
Do you have an antipathy to the computer?
Yes, I do.
I think, well, I've mentioned a number of examples through both Internet and World Wide Web, which I feel are bad for.
I don't want to ruin my eyesight.
You will notice what happens.
Almost everybody who has a computer has glasses.
Yeah, I don't have glasses yet.
And I had a wonderful, perfect vision.
A perfect vision until you have one.
My father didn't wear glasses until he bought a computer at the age of 60 or something.
I mean, I had fighter pilot eyes.
I mean, I really did.
I wasn't a fighter pilot.
I was in the service because I had to be, but my vision was absolutely perfect.
Yeah.
And now it's, I can't, they're gone.
Well, you see, I want to continue reading books.
And I, you know, it's a ridiculous fact.
I think this whole thing is a, you know, it's made speed up in work and it's destroyed not only Carpool Tunnel, but I, you also have to remember there's one important factor about computers that made them very easily acceptable to most people and not to myself, is that not having grown up with films or television, uh,
To me, a screen has inadequate resolution.
Indeed, much of modern offset printing is inadequate, but a good, solid letterpress is to my ideal resolution.
I'm not used to seeing information on a screen.
To me, it gives me a headache quite rapidly.
Now, most people move from a television...
screen to a computer screen just fine.
I might find one of my objections to computers vanishing if there were some extremely high resolution non-screen.
I think for the database material that you do, especially with all the stuff you put on cards and all the books you've read and all the footnotes, you know, computer technology there would be outstanding.
Yeah, exactly.
But on the other hand, I've started this, you know, I have to retrospectively do 30 years of reading.
Retrospective conversion, they call it.
Yeah, but it's all on his handwriting, not even typed.
Retro, of course, retcon, Nichols and Bacon, I'm sure they've told you what a total fiasco is.
These catalogs are no longer works of scholarship.
The old Library of Congress cards, you could take those for gospel.
These catalogs up here, it's making it easier for the library with budgetary cutbacks and stuff and harder for the person.
You could look up something because it's never been done by anyone with brains.
If they've got a book by Raphael Urciolo written down there, then they have a new one that they've got a catalog by R.G.
Urciolo,
Anyone who knows romance philology might tell you, well, R.G.
Urciolo and Raphael Urciolo are the same person, but some poor hack who just knows how to work a computer doesn't know that, so you end up with two entries.
And if somebody more accomplished, I mean, I've chosen a fairly researche name.
If you've got something fairly complicated, you can find huge long lists.
And if you want to find all the works of Benedetto Croce, for instance, you can spend...
two hours looking through that catalog up there, whereas in the National Union catalog, you could take, you know, he's got a lot of pages because he wrote hundreds of books, but still it's manageable.
And it's just, it's a way of shifting the labor onto someone else.
And so many of these people have no sense of even how to use books.
They can't even use computers.
And I also, of course, a book, you know, well, this is old hat, you must, every computer, anti-computer person must tell you, hires unverified information out there.
and people act as though they either decide, yes, they realize it's all unverified, therefore they assume something written by Nicholas Barker or John Sparrow is also unverified information, or they're used to reading Nicholas Barker, and they realize it's all gospel truth, and they transfer that to the Internet.
I mean, either way, people don't have a critical... There's no editor.
There's no way to distinguish between what's authentic, what's gone through the filtration process,
Oh, it's very suspect.
Listen, I'm going to get my car back.
Okay.
I will tell you in 30 seconds the last thing I meant to say, which is the Lasky quotation.
He described how Lord Acton, you know, who had 100,000... Who's quotation again?
This is Lasky's quotation of Lord Acton.
It's obviously reported to Lasky because Acton died in 1901.
That's what we did finish.
Yeah.
This is, I think, very significant not only to book collecting, to the Internet, hierarchy of information, organizing of information, scholarly practices.
He said that Acton, the club, which is the club that's founded originally by Samuel Johnson, and it continues, with a small membership of fairly learning people, Acton, who, of course, had read everything, Acton would, in support of his opinions, which he had, he would quote, as I do, in fact,
not only giving the work, footnoting, I mean, full documentation, he would quote authorities which his interlocutors did not know.
And he was always vanquished in argument because they were unable to, they had no way of knowing whether the quotation that he gave was from a respectable book or not.
Now, you could have taken it for granted that anything acted says comes from a source that may be taken as gospel, but they didn't know that.
So that gets back to things like Printing of the Mind of Man.
If you quote from Printing of the Mind of Man, it's a known entity.
If you quote from something completely obscure, unless, I mean, people can quote from my catalogs who know me, and some of them occasionally do.
But I realize, you know, there are 125 people in the world who have heard of me, and that's it.
And to a small group, they will say, as Ian Jackson says, such and such.
But to the rest, it's completely lost on them, and they have no idea whether I know what I'm talking about or not.
And Acton's problem is the same way.
How many catalogs have you done?
89.
And how often do you do them?
Whenever I need money.
About three or four years.
Most of my books are actually sold privately.
It's not through the catalogs.
The catalogs are a waste of money and time.
But you see, I entertain a few elderly friends, the 25, and if they die as they're beginning to die, I may quit doing catalogs because they're too much.
I mean, each catalog has $5,000 worth of books in it, which I probably paid $3,000 for, and I make $2,000, and I've spent
I mean, it's a complete money thing.
But it does acquaint certain people with myself.
And booksellers do come and visit my attic and go away with $5,000 worth of books.
And that's where I'd actually make money.
The catalogs, they're to entertain friends.
And yourself.
This is why, actually, these clerishers are probably what God said to me.
Because although I have given away a number of them, I have sold them and made money.
And they provide the same sort of rough entertainment that you might be getting out of my catalogs in a state marketable form.
Otherwise...
You can't sell catalogs, particularly as badly produced as mine.
I'm going to run.
I'm going to get a car back.
I'm flying out tomorrow.